# Capitalism might be contradictory

As I was watching the tech congressional hearing, I couldn't help but wonder: Apple, Google, Facebook, Microsoft, etc. have long been touted as examples of successful capitalism. They started from garages, etc. and became massive successful companies. On the other hand, here they are, testifying in front of Congress, and being accused of the same thing that made them successful; ruthless competitiveness. Each of them have their own problems but I want to see if they have similarities.

In Apple's case, it is being accused of bullying app developers and unfair and inconsistent app purchases guidelines. The problem became very exacerbated with the recent email app Hey. Hey's app store application was initially rejected since their model for signing up users did not go through Apple's 'in-app purchase SDK" (which automatically takes a 30% cut). This is a problem in itself, but the real injustice is that Netflix and Amazon Prime do the exact same thing with absolutely no threat of their app being taken from the App store. Ignore this inconsistency; if it applied the model to everyone there would also be a problem. Spotify released a website that essentially details the unfairness of Apple's business practices:

[Home - Time to Play Fair](https://www.timetoplayfair.com)

The basic idea is Apple has a hand in the music industry but they also control the App store. This makes the 30% cut against Spotify unfair since Spotify has to drop their price artificially to compete with Apple's music app subscription.

Okay, now onto Google. Uh, let's ignore all the hate and accusations that Google is somehow aligned with China and against the U.S. (although I'm glad the CEO is Indian...if they were Chinese, the situation might be far more heated). Google's problem is that they essentially monitor the search results, and perhaps inject some bias toward their own products. They have a hand in virtually everything nowadays (mobile devices, corporate software, etc.), and if a user is looking for a certain product, they can be redirected to Google's version of that product if they have it. One congressman mentioned that 63% of the Google search results end in one of Google's own websites. One great example of business practices by Google is of the Gmail autocomplete functionality. Before it was put into Google, an independent developer built the product and sold it. Seeing the popularity of the product, Google engineered their own version (Smart Compose) and injected it into their own gmail system, which crippled the developer's income. Unfortunately, I can't find an account of this anywhere...but there are many accounts of Google taking ideas for a long time:

[The Evidence Google's Systematic Theft is Anti-Competitive](https://www.forbes.com/sites/scottcleland/2012/01/20/the-evidence-googles-systematic-theft-is-anti-competitive/#5aa27b287d62)

This brings up a pretty good question: if you build something, someone else sees it, takes the idea but builds it *themselves*, is it moral? Does the answer change if the product they built is better? It's certainly legal unless you have a patent for the idea. 

Facebook was in a similar position with Instagram. Worried that Instagram might pose to be a threat, they outright bought the company. 

In all these three situations, the problem is associated with being huge, and spanning many different markets (i.e. being successful). Apple controls the app store and has it's own music app, Google redeveloped someone else's idea and released it outright as its own (and they had the resources to develop it, but also provide it to more people). Facebook was rich enough to buy Instagram and Whatsapp. These are successful capitalist companies making sensible capitalist business choices. So how has it gotten to the point that they inhibit competition? 

Typically in capitalism, as one company develops a better product, it incentivizes competition to develop a better product as well. So why can't one do the same against Apple/Google/Facebook? Well, frankly, it's too hard. They have such a large user base, and they're so dominant and all-encompassing at this point that incentivizing people to try and use different products. People can build products that compete against certain portions of the companies (i.e. Spotify against Apple Music, Instagram vs. Facebook app, Notion (partially) against Google drive) but nobody can compete against the entire company.

It's reasonable to think "oh maybe Spotify or one of the smaller businesses can eventually grow to compete against Big Tech in other aspects as well" but in practice, this doesn't happen. Either the big tech buys the company (Facebook), they develop their own version (Google) or they tax the smaller company in some other way (Apple). So how can one possibly hope to one day compete against these companies?

This problem stems from the companies being too big and all encompassing. Like the current hearings are about, they need to be broken up into smaller businesses that their respective markets can compete in. This still doesn't solve the problem though; what happened to capitalism? Why did it break when it came to these companies? How did they grow to encompass such a large space without viable competition?

I don't have an answer but I can speculate; Apple's iPhone was an extremely revolutionary product...it lowkey started the smartphone movement. Nothing else could even come close. Same with the Facebook app. The app was so popular and grew so quickly that it steamrolled all other competition. Again, the same is true of the Google search engine and Amazon. These products, as a result of pure ingenuity and deep innovation led to such rapid growth in all three companies, but at some point, all of them realized, they couldn't iterate on the product effectively anymore. They started to creep into other domains, other playing fields. Backed with the enormous sum of money they generated, it lead to a snowball effect.