# Doing things yourself is better than being taught about them

In my experience, I've always felt like doing the actions yourself is better than being taught about the actions.

Let's say you there is some task you want to perform in some complicated system you have not encountered before. One example is training an object detector on a custom dataset through Tensorflow (real example from work). When you go through it by yourself, it is like you are slowly digging a path through the complicated system, and with each shovel pass, you learn something new about how Tensorflow works. On the other hand, documentation about Tensorflow is written by some person who *should* have a very good understanding of Tensorflow, and they are trying to reduce it down to a way they think other people can understand. In other words, it's an approximation to the real thing, but in my opinion, this approximation, regardless of how talented the writer is no substitute for learning the real thing by yourself. If you try running something by yourself, you will always run into bugs and errors, but documentation does not prepare you for that since [[Lessons about how to do things don't teach about p 4a6505ee5f784ebfa0feba17bab114d0 | Lessons about how to do things don't teach about potential problems]].

This applies outside of software too. A little while ago, an incoming freshman to CMU asked me if I had any tips for double majoring in physics and computer science. I thought for a while; my journey in CMU has been humbling, difficult, and enlightening. I've learned a lot about myself and the world, but how am I supposed to summarize all of these internalized lessons over 3 difficult years in a quick reddit post? The answer is I can't and I shouldn't, since the freshman will not really understand or internalize anything I say until they go through it themselves.

That's not to say reading about a topic is useless; it offers a time-effective way to get introduced to a subject, but I think if you want to understand the insides or use the topic you learned to build something, you certainly have to dive in and practice yourself.