# Should we have names?

The title of the article is a little bit of a misdirection. I don’t mean to ask if humans should have names, but rather if in general, we should have names for anything at all, like concepts etc. I actually do believe humans should have names and I’ll explore it from a different perspective than just the lens of convenience.

We’ve all been in a class, and the “important names” have been thrown at us. **The Gram-Schmidt Process, Okazaki Fragments, The Planck constant**. Is introducing names to these concepts helpful? The answer may seem a little obvious right now, but consider this situation: suppose there are two parallel universes. They’re exactly the same except in one, there is a particular dance move that’s called “The Tornado shuffle” (idk). In the other universe, the same dance move has no name. In both cases, the first instance of the dance move was showcased by Alice, a very popular dancer.

Suppose in a very highly recognized dancing competition where participants are supposed to show an original dance move, Bob is performing. For his act, Bob performs the Tornado shuffle move except he adds a slight modification. Perhaps he lifts his arm where he shouldn’t have. In both universes, Bob ends up winning the tournament but Alice sues Bob, saying that the move is extremely similar to her own move, and he cannot add a slight modification and call it his own. Bob insists that his modification makes it different enough from the original.

Now in the first universe, this dance move has a name. Alice’s rationale leans heavily on the name. The tornado shuffle was invented by her, he copied the tornado shuffle, it’s not different enough from the tornado shuffle, what he performed is still the tornado shuffle. In this universe, the judge is convinced that Alice is right. Looking at the footage, it’s very clear the modification is slight (the judge notices this in both situations), the dance move is still clearly categorized as the tornado shuffle, violating the “originality” requirement.

Contrast this with the second universe, where Alice’s rationale is as follows: The dance move was invented by her, he copied the dance move, it’s not different enough from the dance move, what he performed is still the dance move. The same reasoning sounds a lot less convincing. The judge knows they’re similar dance moves, but that’s it: they’re similar, not the same. Bob wins the lawsuit.

So what happened? Essentially, in the first universe, the tornado shuffle, since it has its own name, is now a sub-category of the larger category of dance moves. The lawsuit becomes a matter of categorization. Since “tornado shuffle” describes his move more accurately than “dance move”, his move is deemed close enough to the tornado shuffle for Alice to win.

In the second situation, Alice’s move and Bob’s move are both categorized as dance moves, since there is no better defined sub-category they can both belong to. But just because they’re both dance moves does not mean that they are the same dance move, and since they aren’t identical, the judge is more likely to rule in Bob’s favor.

This may seem like a contrived example, but it’s only because I wanted to make it entertaining. In truth, the same situation could’ve happened with art styles that are very similar, math formulas that are very similar but discovered separately by different mathematicians, or scientific methods. Names can give us trouble here, because it’s not easily defined where a painting diverges from an art style, or one math formula is different from another if they both describe the same essential concept. It’s possible to come up with any number of similar examples: just think of a construct that’s more continuous than discrete.

So essentially, names give us a way to categorize things. They’re discrete labels and we use them to separate discrete things…but also continuous things. We have names for art styles, dance moves, math formulas, and a whole boatload of continuous constructs. It’s a good start to the question of whether we should have names or not, and the next step we should tackle is how names can undermine the true nature of continuous constructs, and what alternatives could exist to names.